How to get SSL/HTTPS for localhost (#1953)
section-engineering-education/engineering-education: articles/how-to-get-ssl-https-for-localhost/index.md

### Introduction

> Building a web application that later can be deployed in the production server requires first to be tested in a local environment. It is also possible to run the web application in a local environment and be accessed over the internet. It is equally important that we get an [SSL certificate](https://www.cloudflare.com/en-gb/learning/ssl/what-is-an-ssl-certificate/) for the same, for the users to trust the site and remove the red annoying *'Not Secure'* message at the address bar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Building a web application for a production server requires local testing before deployment. 

It is also possible to run the web application in a local environment have it accessible over the internet.

It is equally important that we get an [SSL certificate](https://www.cloudflare.com/en-gb/learning/ssl/what-is-an-ssl-certificate/) for the same, for the users to trust the site and to remove the *'Not Secure'* message at the address bar.

This article will take you through how to provision SSL certificates for local servers.
```

```bash
$ openssl x509 -req -in localhost.csr -CA ../cert/CA/CA.pem -CAkey ../cert/CA/CA.key -CAcreateserial -days 3650 -sha256 -extfile localhost.ext -out localhost.crt
```

This command takes in the CSR (`localhost.csr`), the CA certificate (`CA.pem` and `CA.key`), and the certificate extensions file (`localhost.ext`). Those inputs generate a `localhost.crt` certificate file, valid for ten years.

The server will need the localhost.crt certificate file, and the decrypted key since our localhost.key is in encrypted form. We will need to decrypt the `localhost.key` and store that file too as below:

```bash
$ openssl rsa -in localhost.key -out localhost.decrypted.key
```

### Step 3: Creating a Node.js Express Server
To test the above whether working as expected, we have to create a Node.js Express server that outputs a success message.

Going back to our cert folder, we will initialize a Node.js project and add the express and HTTPS packages using the below commands:

```bash
$ npm init -y
$ npm i express https
$ touch index.js
```

Then edit the `index.js` file as below:

```JavaScript
const fs = require('fs');
const key = fs.readFileSync('../localhost/localhost.decrypted.key');

> const cert = fs.readFileSync('../localhost/localhost.crt');

Reviewer: Point out that the path for the `localhost.decrypted.key` and `localhost.crt` are dependent on where the reader is running the command from.

For me it was 
```JavaScript
const key = fs.readFileSync('./CA/localhost/localhost.decrypted.key');
const cert = fs.readFileSync('./CA/localhost/localhost.crt');
```

The process of configuring API Client is the same as the browser, and the difference is one has to disable certificate validation. In Postman settings, make sure that SSL certificate verification is turned off.

![postman ssl off](/engineering-education/hot-to-get-ssl-https-for-localhost/postman-ssl-off.PNG)

Then we resend the request in Postman, and the results will be:

![postman success](/engineering-education/hot-to-get-ssl-https-for-localhost/postman-success.PNG)

We have been able to get a **200 OK** message, which is good at this stage. However, the problem is we still have red security warning because our SSL certificate is off. The warning in details looks like below:

![postman red security error](/engineering-education/hot-to-get-ssl-https-for-localhost/postman-red-security-error.PNG)

To solve this issue, we can add our CA to Postman. In Postman settings, make sure that CA certificates are turned on and select the `CA.pem` file.
Then rerun the request as below; this time, we will have a secure **200 OK** message.

![postman success cert](/engineering-education/hot-to-get-ssl-https-for-localhost/postman-success-cert.PNG)

### Conclusion

> In this guide, we have seen it is possible to have localhost served up with SSL. From the guide, we have been able to set the CA and used it to sign the SSL certificate. We changed the browser settings as well as the API client settings for them to accept the certificate. Note it is never advisable to add certificates to the certificate list thoughtlessly. Malicious users everywhere will pose as a CA and trick the user into
> accepting their websites posing as authentic, leading to a serious security breach. The process can help developers host their sites on local servers or forwarded ports to assure their visitors that the site is safe and secure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this guide, we have seen it is possible to have localhost served up with SSL. 

From the guide, we have been able to set the CA and used it to sign the SSL certificate. We changed the browser settings as well as the API client settings for them to accept the certificate.

Note it is never advisable to add certificates to the certificate list thoughtlessly. Malicious users everywhere will pose as a CA and trick the user into accepting their websites posing as authentic, leading to a serious security breach.

The process can help developers host their sites on local servers or forwarded ports to assure their visitors that the site is safe and secure.
```
